Causality

One of the biggest problems I have observed in Science is determining
causality. That is, identifying cause and effect. It is easy to confuse
one with the other. 

The observer can effect the outcome.  As long as all observers effect the
outcome in the same way, the effect can be interpreted as independent
when in fact it is not.

Mental illness.  
It is observed that mental illness is caused by "brain chemistry".
But, is that correct?

Clearly, our thoughts can be translated into action.
Those actions require the production of chemicals.
Thus thoughts produce chemistry.

So, why is it held in the medical community that chemistry stimulates
thoughts rather than thoughts stimulate chemistry?
The effect is to empower the medical community,
and reduce the power of the patient.
Before jumping to the conclusion the medical community is evil,
let us examine a few facts.

The patient often has the hope or expectation the doctor will cure his
ills. So, the doctor who assures the patient he can solve his problem,
will attract more patients, and thus have greater opportunity to help.
It turns out this assurance can have a placebo effect.  The patient
feels better because the doctor's assurance reduces uncertainty.

The doctor who sees the most patients gains the most experience.
If, in order to gain experience, a doctor must make unrealistic
claims, there is clearly a benefit to all in this situation.
So, as is usually the case in medicine, the responsibility is 
with the patient.

The reality is that only the patient can heal himself. Medicine can
assist. In most cases, the benefit of medicine is in slowing down the
cause of the malady sufficiently for the patient to build a defense.
Examples are drugs, vaccines, antibiotics. 

You may hear politicians declare that unfettered litigation harms
the medical profession.  It increases costs and reduces effectiveness.
The reason for the current legal dilemma is unrealistic expectations
of what medicine can do.  The dilemma for the medical community is
creating a balance between patient wants and needs.
And, staying in business.

