People have been trying for over 100 years to identify the differences between
the races.  Conclusion to date is that there are none.

So, the only significant difference between people is culture.
Culture is inextricably bonded with language.
Thus, it is language that makes the difference in what we are.
Without language there is no culture and thus no uniting force
to lead to what makes humans great, their ability to specialize
and cooperate.

Because I see a profound importance in language, I see a great threat from
those who would undermine, bastardize, or ambiguate a language. 
In fact, I believe the most effective way to destroy a people is to destroy
their culture.  Language is where a culture is most vulnerable.

That is not to say all cultures are equal. There is ample evidence to
show that all cultures are not equal. Look at laws, religion, science,
and you will see vast differences in cultures. 

On ambiguation that is tearing America apart is the concept of
conservative and liberal. The idea that people can be divided in this
way is ludicrous. This is an overt attempt to divide and destroy
American culture.  I propose a definition of conservative and liberal
that is not ambiguous, removes all positive or negative connotation
and returns those two words to the realm of useful tools for cooperation.

Conservative.  
    A person who likes things the way they are.  Does not want change.
    Example.  Under current circumstances an individual is feels
    "successful" in his life.  Therefore, he does not want change because
    it is more likely to make things worse than better.
    Every American has a part of his life where he feels he is succeeding
    and is therefore conservative.  By the same token, every American
    has a sense of areas where he is not "successful" and therefore sees
    change as a way to improve things.

Liberal.  
    A person who does not like things the way they are.  Wants change.
    A liberal is therefore the opposite of a conservative.  No big change
    there. 

The change is not in identifying whether a person is conservative or liberal.
The change is in recognizing that we are all both conservative and liberal,
and on occassion at the same time!

So, it is not productive to identify people as one or the other.
We are all both.   I will call this tendency to force people to extreme
positions by labeling them as conservative or liberal "absolutism".
I define absolutism as an attempt to reduce life to black and white
thinking.  It dictates that people are at one of two extremes.

By my definition of conservatism and liberalism, those who are against big
government are not conservative in the face of a nation where big government is
the norm.  One cannot be both conservative and in favor of change at the same
time.  

The desire to reduce or roll back taxes is not a conservative position.
It is a desire to change the status quo and therefore liberal.

The real debate is not between conservative versus liberty.
Rather the real debate is liberty vs. authority.

I would argue that the people called conservatives are really liberals.
And the people currently called liberals are really conservative.

How can someone who favors liberty, freedom of choice, not be liberal?
There is no choice in maintaining the status quo.  
Conservatism is the absence of choice and the absense of liberty.
Who needs choice if the choice is to leave things as they are?

So what am I?  Am I a conservative?  Yes, where that seems right.
Am I a liberal?  Yes, where that seems right.

When I am driving my car, do I want people to be able to make their own choice
about the meaning of a red light or green light?  NO!!!  I am conservative.

When I am in a store, do I want people to be able to choose the food they
wish to eat?  YES!!!  I am a liberal.

So, if asked whether I am liberal or conservative, the answer is maybe.

